# CS250SoftwareDevelopmentLifecycle

**Module 8 Journal**

  **1. How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?**
  
  The interpretation of user needs is a crucial aspect of software development. In order to ensure the software being developed meets the requirements and expectations of its intended audience, developers should actively engage with their end-users and any relevant market data. "User stories" are just one tool that helps to easily manage this effort. They are short descriptions of desired functionalities or features for a project, written from the perspective of an end-user. The team can then utilize "user stories" to take the complex needs of their end-users and convert them into actionable items to be worked on during an upcoming Sprint. This process allows the needs and desires of the project's audience to be fully addressed by the team to the best of their ability. 
  
  **2. How do I approach developing programs? What agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?**
  
  There are many ways to approach program development, but incorporating agile methodologies provides the benefits of a higher rate of software deliverables, emphasized collaboration with both the team and stakeholders, and increased adaptability through continuous learning and iteration. When developing a program, one way to incorporate an agile methodology into a project is through the use of an agile process called a Sprint, which is a 2- to 6-week-long period of development that seeks to tackle a list of "user stories" determined at the start of the Sprint. This process usually intends to return some software deliverables at the end of each Sprint, which ensures a regular and relatively fast rate of return on software deliverables. A Sprint is an example of an agile event, which is also where the next benefit of agile methodologies can be incorporated into a project. The use of agile events, where the team meets internally and sometimes even with end-users and other stakeholders, brings increased communication, transparency, and, in turn, collaboration to the project. Finally, the implementation of Sprint Reviews and Retrospectives allows the team to get together and discuss what went right during a Sprint or project, what challenges were encountered, and what can be improved or changed going forward to increase the quality of the team's work.

  **3. What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?**
  
Being a good team member in terms of software development entails many different qualities, some more obvious than others. The ability to produce good code is the trait that would come to anyone's mind first, but how much does that matter if you are unable to properly interpret the needs of your intended audience? What if you lack the ability to effectively coordinate with your team members? Is the ability to produce good code still sufficient? In order to be a good team member, you must be able to actively listen to the needs and requirements of your project's intended audience, proactively communicate and share knowledge with your team and stakeholders, and continuously learn and update your skills to ensure you always deliver high-quality work. 
